By Debra Heine
October 16, 2020
After the New York Post broke the bombshell report detailing evidence found on a computer hard drive of the Biden family’s influence peddling, Hunter Biden’s attorney contacted the computer repairman who found the incriminating material, and asked for the computer hard drive back, President Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani revealed on Steven Crowder’s podcast, Thursday.
In addition to that, the former New York mayor divulged that there are dozens of “disturbing” photos of Hunter Biden “doing an imitation of Anthony Weiner,” and many more indicating that he had “a very massive drug addition.”
“He’s like a zombie,” Giuliani told Crowder.
He also said there are texts describing a transaction between Hunter and Joe Biden and “a Communist Chinese intelligence operative”—which appeared to have been a set up for extortion.
The former New York mayor summed up the NY Post bombshell for Crowder:  “Hunter Biden and Joe Biden are involved in a bribery scheme in Ukraine and Hunter Biden and Joe for years have said that Joe knew nothing about Burisma, the company that paid the bribe,” he explained.
“And what there is, is a cold, clear group of text messages in which Hunter Biden sets up a meeting with the number two person in that company and Joe Biden, who then texts Hunter back and thanks him. So it makes Joe a complete liar for the last seven years. It show that he met with Burisma,” Giuliani said.
The former mayor told Crowder that another message shows that Hunter was snuck into the State Department for a meeting with the then-Deputy Sec. of State Tony Blinken and that the meeting was not recorded because it “violated the Foreign Agents Registration Act” (FARA).
When asked how he could prove that the damning texts and emails came from Hunter Biden’s computer, Giuliani revealed that Biden’s lawyer contacted John Paul Mac Isaac, the Delaware computer repair shop owner who had discovered the material, as soon as the story broke.
“I’ll give you something that really verifies it,” Giuliani said. “The very morning this came out, Hunter Biden’s lawyer called the merchant, and asked him if he could have the hard drive back,” he said. “We have email evidence of that. So if the lawyer is asking for the hard drive back—it must be the hard drive.”
“He actually did it by telephone and email and we have the email,” Giuliani added.
Crowder was stunned.
“It’s almost as if it makes it worse on them, Mr. Giuliani!” he exclaimed.
“Oh yeah, it’s the dumbest thing a lawyer can do,” Giuliani agreed. “”I mean, Joe Biden was the dumbest kid in law school.”
Giuliani told Crowder that the hard drive makes clear that Hunter suffered from a “very massive drug addiction.”
“It’s hard to get through a line of photographs without seeing one of him with a crack pipe,” he said. “I’m serious—sitting in a closet going bonkers. He’s like a zombie.”
When asked if he’s seen the photos of Hunter Biden and the crack pipe himself, Giuliani replied, “you’re darn right I have!”
He held up his laptop for Crowder to see, and said they were on that hard drive.
Giuliani said that when Isaac first saw the damning emails, “he almost fainted” because “he’d never seen anything like this before.”
“It’s got him [Hunter Biden] there with crack pipes, it’s got him there doing an imitation of Anthony Weiner about 50 times,” the attorney revealed, as Crowder burst out laughing.
“You know what I’m talking about,” Giuliani added.
Anthony Weiner is the disgraced former Democrat congressman from New York who resigned from Congress in 2011 amid a sexting scandal that involved underage girls.
In 2017, Weiner pleaded guilty to separate sexting charge of transferring obscene material to a minor, and was sentenced to 21 months in prison.
Giuliani went on to soberly note that the hard drive has “some disturbing things on it that I shouldn’t joke about.”
When asked what the next shoe to drop would be, the lawyer said it would have to do with a transaction between Hunter Biden and a “Chinese communist intelligence operative.”
“And it’s quite obvious that he setting him up. He’s setting Hunter Biden up and he’s setting Joe up for extortion,” Giuliani explained. “I think there will be more emails and text messages that make that clear.”
He went on to say that there would be more communications that would describe how Joe Biden was being compensated.
“In fact, he was getting a large portion of this money,” Giuliani said, adding that the information would explain how Joe Biden, who has never made that much money as a politician, “has two or three luxurious homes.”
“Because he didn’t pay for anything, Hunter did,” he explained.
“This is a long term bribery scheme that started low level in Delaware with his brother James—selling his office,” Giuliani told Crowder.
“When they got to the big time, they shook down Iraq for … I think about 500 million, Ukraine for about 20 [million], China—I don’t know—30, 40 million?” he said.
Giuliani added that he almost forgot Russia. “The 3.5 million from the mayor’s wife,” who he noted is a good friend of Russian President Vladimir Putin. “That woman is a close ally of Putin,” Giuliani said, pointing out the irony of the president being accused of colluding with Russia, when “Biden actually got paid by Russia!”
Crowder noted that the same Facebook and Twitter that is “throttling” this story because it is “unverified,” was happy to help push the Russia collusion hoax for years, including the ludicrous “pee tape” story, that alleged Trump watched prostitutes urinate on furniture in a Russian hotel room.
“None of that was throttled,” Crowder pointed out.
“And he’s a germaphobe to boot!” Giuliani exclaimed. “He wouldn’t get within ten miles of something like that!”
 
