     A   A
  
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said it would be "almost impossible" to execute a coronavirus relief package before the November election.
"Even if you made a deal, it would be almost impossible to execute," the veteran financial guru and former Ronald Reagan adviser told Fox Business network.
"Maybe some of it could be executed. But you certainly couldn't get a grand, large deal," said Kudlow, who worked as Reagan’s budget deputy between 1981 and 1985.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told Democratic colleagues that a divide persists with the White House over a number of components of the fiscal stimulus she’s attempting to negotiate, even as an agreement nears on a coronavirus testing program, Bloomberg reported.
After a call lasting more than an hour Thursday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the administration would only make minor edits to a Democratic proposal on that score.
Instead, Kudlow urged lawmakers to reallocate $300 billion in unused CARES Act funds and use it to extend boosted unemployment benefits, reopen the Paycheck Protection Program and provide airlines with another $25 billion bailout, Fox Business Network explained.
"All they have to do is appropriate it," Kudlow said. "It takes legislative and political will to do it," Kudlow said.
Kudlow's comments came one day after President Trump told Fox Business Network he was considering upping his offer for a coronavirus relief package above the White House 's current $1.8 trillion proposal.
"Absolutely, I would. I would say more. I would go higher. Go big or go home," Kudlow said.
“Nancy Pelosi doesn’t want to give anything. She thinks it helps her with the election,” the president continued. “And I don’t think so. I think it hurts her with the election because everyone knows she’s holding it up. We’re not holding it up. She’s holding it up.”
"The president wants a deal," said. "Secretary Mnuchin is negotiating a deal. If Speaker Pelosi wanted a deal, I think we could round up enough Senate Republicans to get a deal. But less than three weeks to go. I don't know."
Related Stories:
