Savannah Guthrie Savaged, Celebrated for Taking on Trump During Town Hall
Senator Mitt Romney of Utah criticized Trump's rhetoric in a statement on October 13 . Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential candidate, also highlighted some of the Democrats' behavior.
"The President calls the Democratic vice presidential candidate 'a monster;' he repeatedly labels the speaker of the House 'crazy;' he calls for the Justice Department to put the prior president in jail; he attacks the governor of Michigan on the very day a plot is discovered to kidnap her," Romney said.
"The consequence of the crescendo of anger leads to a very bad place. No sane person can want that," Romney went on.
Though Sasse, Romney and Baker are the most recent senior Republicans to speak out, there has been growing criticism of the president throughout the presidential campaign.
On June 8 former Republican Secretary of State Colin Powell said Trump had "drifted away" from the Constitution and later publicly backed Biden for president. He did note vote for Trump in 2016.
Maryland's Larry Hogan has been particularly critical of the president's handling of COVID-19, writing of Trump in the Washington Post on July 16 that "instead of listening to his own public health experts, the president was talking and tweeting like a man more concerned about boosting the stock market or his re-election'"
John Kasich, a Republican and former governor of Ohio, spoke at the Democratic National Convention on August 17 and endorsed Biden, while Cindy McCain, wife of the late Senator John McCain , backed Biden because "he's the better man."
Former Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona said on August 24 that Trump is "not a conservative" and called him a "chaos president." He has also been a critic of the president in the past.
"I was a Republican long before the President ever called himself one. And I'll be a Republican long after identifying as such is no longer useful to him," Flake said.
U.S. Sen. Ben Sasse (R-NE) looks on during the fourth day of the Supreme Court confirmation hearing for nominee Judge Amy Coney Barrett before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Capitol Hill on October 15 in Washington, D.C. With less than a month until the presidential election, President Donald Trump tapped Amy Coney Barrett to be his third Supreme Court nominee in just four years. If confirmed, Barrett would replace the late Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Sasse is the latest Republican to criticize Trump ahead of the election. Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
Every Major Republican to Speak Out Against Trump Just Days Before Election | Politics
Start your day with our top 5 articles
Unlimited 30 Day Ad Free Trial
Subscribe Now
You have 4 free articles remaining this month
Sign-up to our daily newsletter for more articles like this + access to 5 extra articles
To continue reading login or create an account.
No subscription required.
Already have an account? Login here
Don't have an account yet? Create account
Choose your subscription
Newsweek magazine delivered to your door
Unlimited access to Newsweek.com
iOS and Android app access
Personalized daily newsletter
