Contribution rules
I am a U.S. citizen or lawfully admitted permanent resident (i.e., green card holder).
This contribution is made from my own funds, and funds are not being provided to me by another person or entity for the purpose of making this contribution.
I am at least eighteen years old.
I am not a federal contractor.
I am making this contribution with my own personal credit card and not with a corporate or business credit card or a card issued to another person.
Biden Victory Fund accepts contributions of up to $721,300 from a person and $345,000 from a multicandidate committee (“PAC”). The first $2,800/$5,000 from a person/PAC will be allocated to Biden for President. The next $35,500/$15,000 from a person/PAC will be allocated to the DNC. The next $150,000/$75,000 from a person/PAC will be split equally among the Democratic state parties from: AZ, CO, FL, GA, MI, MN, NC, NE, NH, NV, OH, PA, TX, VA, and WI. The next $110,000/$55,000 from a person/PAC will be split equally among the Democratic state parties from: AL, DE, KS, LA, MA, MD, MS, NJ, NY, VT, and WV. The next $210,000/$105,000 from a person/PAC will be split equally among the Democratic state parties from: AK, AR, CT, DC, HI, ID, IN, KY, ME, MO, MT, ND, NM, OK, OR, RI, SC, TN, UT, WA, and WY. Any additional funds will be allocated to the DNC. A contributor may designate his or her contribution for a particular participant by contacting contact@joebiden.com.  The allocation formula above may change if following it would result in an excessive contribution. Contributions will be used in connection with federal elections, may be spent on any activity as each committee determines in its sole discretion, and will not be earmarked for any particular candidate. Federal law requires us to use our best efforts to collect and report the name, mailing address, occupation, and name of employer of individuals whose contributions exceed $200 per election cycle. The Biden Victory Fund does not accept contributions from corporations or their PACs, unions, federal contractors, national banks, those registered as federal lobbyists or under FARA, SEC-named executives of fossil fuel companies, or foreign nationals.   By providing your phone number you consent to receive recurring and/or automated text messages and calls from Biden for President and the DNC. Msg. & data rates may apply. Text HELP for Info. Text STOP to quit. No purchase necessary. Please read our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions (BFP) and Privacy Policy and Terms of Services (DNC) to understand how information about you is collected, used and disclosed by BFP, the DNC, and any affiliates.  If you have a question about an online donation or wish to modify an existing contribution, please contact our payment processing vendor, ActBlue, by emailing info@actblue.com.  If you wish to receive fewer emails or unsubscribe from DNC messages, click here and follow the instructions . If you would like to opt out of communications from the Biden for President Campaign, please click here and follow the instructions . Please note that it may take one to two days for your request to be fully processed.
By proceeding with this transaction, you agree to ActBlue's terms & conditions .
Paid for by ActBlue ( actblue.com ) and not authorized by any candidate or candidate's committee.
Contributions or gifts to ActBlue are not deductible as charitable contributions for Federal income tax purposes.
