How Big Tech is fixing the election
Social media sites such as Twitter have unprecedented power — and are using it to influence politics
Biden Hunter (right) is accused of using family connections. Credit: Mitchell Layton/Getty
Douglas Murray is a best-selling author and award-winning journalist based in London.
October 16, 2020
Filed under:
Capitalism Alexander Hamilton Amy Coney Barrett Big tech Hunter Biden Joe Biden Kayleigh McEnany New York Post Twitter censorship
Share:
For years there has been a growing concern about the influence of Big Tech. Increasingly, the giant platforms have been muting, shadow-banning and occasionally chucking people off the sites entirely. But few saw the emerging problem because the users being targetted were either not desirable enough or not big enough for the world to bother itself over.
But developments this week may have changed that, with the tech giants daring to make their biggest encroachments so far in deciding what the public could and could not know.
On Wednesday, the New York Post published a major exposé on the activities of Hunter Biden, son of the Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden. The investigation, based on leaked emails, revealed the manner in which Biden Jnr had used his father’s connections to pitch for lucrative contracts with Ukrainian businessmen. Since then, more news has emerged of the younger Biden seeking  remuneration from Chinese firms, among others.  In an election season this is, of course, explosive stuff — but it is also information that the American public have a right to know.
Since Joe Biden presents himself as the honest candidate in this election, the fact that his family members may have been enriching themselves through their connections is relevant to the decision the voters are about to make.
But Big Tech decided that they couldn’t know it. On Wednesday, after the New York Post story emerged, both Twitter and Facebook made an unprecedented move into overt censorship, with the world’s largest social media companies deciding to prevent the dissemination of the story. They did everything they could to stop it from getting out, with Twitter in particular blocking users from posting links to the Post’s article, initially claiming that sharing of the piece violated the platform’s rules on the use of hacked materials.
The idea that the Hunter Biden emails are the result of a hack is disputed. But even if the claim were accurate, it is not the case that these platforms usually take a strong line against stories based on hacked material. Over recent years, there have been numerous stories, from celebrity gossip to major political stories like the DNC nomination scandal at the 2016 election, which have come about solely because of the use of hacked information. Yet Twitter did not prevent people from sharing them, so the claim that “hacking” is the justification on this occasion is in fact nothing other than a retro-fit.
