The Joe Rogan Experience: Podcast Notes
October 13, 2020
  SHARE ON EMAIL
Welcome to my notes for the Joe Rogan Experience, released on 10/15/20. You can click here to watch the episode.
As you’ll hear on the podcast, I’m less interested in a dogmatic approach to carnivore diets, and more interested in looking at patterns this way of eating shows us. If we prioritize meat and organs, understand that plants exist on a spectrum of toxicity and avoid the most toxic ones (a discussion of plant toxins is below), and strictly avoid excess seed oils (source of polyunsaturated fats like linoleic acid) I believe we will thrive as humans. This manner of eating mirrors what our ancestors have done for thousands of generations and millions of years and is written into who we are. This part of what I consider #theremembering. Welcome.
These notes are by no means exhaustive. My book is the best resource for all of the details regarding each of these topics, with over 650 references. We were not able to discuss everything on the podcast but I hope we were able to hit some highlights and that this material will be helpful.
Table of Contents
Anthropology 
Tubers as fallback foods and their impact on Hadza hunter-gatherer
Hadza Prefer honey and meat, and use tubers as “fallback” foods.Women stop digging for tubers when meat is available.
Hunter-Gatherers as Models in Public Health
Hunter-Gatherer populations display robust health, in stark contrast to “westernized” humans
Current views on hunter-gatherer nutrition and the evolution of the human diet
Hunter-gatherers favor animal foods and meat
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/ajpa.23148
A quantum theory for the irreplaceable role of docosahexaenoic acid in neural cell signalling throughout evolution
DHA from animal foods appears to have played a crucial role in hominid development. This essential omega-3 fatty acid is not found in significant quantities outside of animal foods eaten nose to tail.
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23206328/
The Worst Mistake in the History of the Human Race
Jared Diamond’s (author of Collapse, Guns, Germs and steel, and other books) thesis statement about the profoundly negative impact of agrarian lifestyles on humans.
https://www.discovermagazine.com/planet-earth/the-worst-mistake-in-the-history-of-the-human-race
Disease and Death at Dr. Dickson’s Mounds
George Armelagos’ research regarding a hunter-gatherer population in present day Illinois transitioning to pastoralism and suffering negative health consequences.
Human Health and the Neolithic Revolution: an Overview of Impacts of the Agricultural Transition on Oral Health, Epidemiology, and the Human Body
The agricultural revolution (Neolithic revolution) and it’s detrimental effects on human health
https://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1186&context=nebanthro
Meat in the human diet: An anthropological perspective
Our ancestral to transition to a meat/organs rich diet had profound impacts on the growth of our brain, and  and the progression of hominid evolution.
With the change in the human diet from Australopithecus to Homo genera the size of our large intestines declined while our brain grew, allowing a change in the rib angle. This energetic trade off has been referred to as the Expensive Tissue Hypothesis.
Change in the human gut size and thoracic structure with increased reliance on animal foods
Bone marrow storage and delayed consumption at Middle Pleistocene Qesem Cave, Israel (420 to 200 ka)
Evidence from 420k years ago that Homo stored bone marrow, suggesting appreciation for this food.
Empire of the Summer Moon
Bloodwork
Coronary artery calcium score 7/2020
Quest Quanam Results
This bloodwork was taken after a hard workout, likely contributing to the elevated hs-CRP.
hs-CRP lower on the next draw without an intense workout the day prior
We did not discuss TMAO on the JRE podcast, but there is a large amount of evidence for reverse causation with diabetes/heart disease and little for a direct effect here. Note uric acid is low despite a large amount of meat. I’ve done a video on gout
here.
Onegevity Health Results
High diversity, no pathogenic organisms, low inflammation. Increased Proteobacteria (bile tolerant) due to an animal based diet. Similar transitions are observed in the Hadza seasonally when more meat is consumed.
Seasonal cycling in the gut microbiome of the Hadza hunter-gatherers of Tanzania. https://science.sciencemag.org/content/357/6353/802
Carbohydrates are not to blame for insulin resistance
Physical activity patterns and biomarkers of cardiovascular disease risk in hunter-gatherers
Hadza people remain free from insulin resistance despite the inclusion of fruit/honey in the diet.
Low serum insulin in traditional Pacific Islanders-The Kitava Story
Kitavans insulin sensitive despite 50+% of dietary calories from carbohydrates.
Metabolic Studies in the African Pygmy
Mbuti often use honey as 20-50% of their caloric intake depending on time of year.
Epidemiological studies in a total highland population, Tukisenta, New Guinea  Cardiovascular disease and relevant clinical, electrocardiographic, radiological and biochemical findings
Despite high carbohydrate intake, Tukisentans do not display insulin resistance
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/0021968173900313
Case Studies with a Nose to Tail Carnivore (termed “PKD” or paleolithic ketogenic diet here) diet for multiple conditions
A child with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) successfully treated with the Paleolithic ketogenic diet: A 19-month insulin freedom
