View Comments
In the final months of her run for the 6th Congressional District, Democratic nominee Jeannine Lake said she has increasingly been bombarded with racist phone messages, has received packages in the mail she finds threatening and has had property at her home vandalized. 
"I'm white and you're nothing but a loud mouth fricken' (racial slur)," a man says in one message left on a campaign phone this week, which she shared with IndyStar. 
Lake, who is challenging Republican incumbent Greg Pence, is the only Black woman running for statewide office or for Congress Nov. 3 in Indiana. She said she hasn't received a direct threat, but some callers warn she could find herself in trouble. She is worried matters will escalate. 
The foiled attempt to kidnap Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer sits on her mind. Lake has been having trouble sleeping. She's thought about dropping out. She has called local authorities and the FBI several times. 
"It's taking a toll on me," she said. "I hate to say that because I'm typically a strong person and I'm a person of faith." 
Contacted by IndyStar, Greg Pence's campaign condemned any threatening behavior. 
"Congressman Pence does not condone any of this behavior and has nothing to do with it," spokesman Kyle Robertson said. "We call on the Delaware County prosecutor for a full investigation."
Prosecutor Eric Hoffman said conducting investigations is a matter for police, but he would consider any charges as appropriate. Police agencies contacted by IndyStar indicated they have investigated but could find no culprits. 
Lake has criticized Pence in the past, telling the Associated Press in July an antique mall he owns allows the sale of items with racist caricatures of Black people. 
Lake said most voters in the district are good people. She thinks a minority have become more brazenly outspoken both due to President Donald Trump's rhetoric and to the counterreaction to racial justice protests that have been rocking the country.
Greg Pence, who is Vice President Mike Pence's brother,  has been running as a close ally of the president and she thinks that makes her a target from some white supremacists stirred up by the president. Her own platform includes pledges to stand up for civil rights and civil liberties .
"When you have the president of the United States of America tell the Proud Boys to 'stand back and stand by' or whatever during that awful, awful debate, and when you have so many people enabling him and standing by, even Christians ... " Lake said, trailing off.
"People are emboldened." 
Messages left with Trump's campaign were not immediately returned Wednesday. Trump partially walked back his debate comments, saying he didn't know who the Proud Boys were but they should stand down . 
Lake's campaign manager, Lori Morgan, said she has heard the voice messages and has seen the packages. 
"These latest messages," Morgan said, "they always indicate they are white. Honestly these last ones have me personally concerned. I don't know the reason for indicating they are white, but there's just a lot of crazy stuff going on." 
Lake will hold a news conference at 1 p.m. Thursday at the Bartholomew County Democratic Headquarters in Columbus. 
Lake's address became public 
Lake, 51, is the editor and publisher of The Good News, a Muncie-based newspaper that covers minority and faith issues.
She first ran against Pence in 2018. She lost with 33% of the vote in a heavily Republican district. She said she didn't experience similar problems with racism that year. 
Matters started escalating this year, she said, when the Delaware County GOP published her address on a Facebook post.
The county GOP used her home address, rather than her campaign's post office box number, when it filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission after she missed a filing deadline. She said the county GOP posted  that document in a Facebook message Aug. 13 criticizing her . 
She said she repeatedly asked the GOP to remove her address from the post, and it did so only after she called the FBI. 
GOP Chairman Victor Whitehead did not return messages for comment Wednesday.
Lake thought the criticism itself was unnecessary. She has reported raising about $57,000, nearly half of which she loaned her own campaign. Greg Pence has raised $2.8 million. 
But more importantly, she thinks at least one person saw her home address on the post and began targeting her. 
"By putting my personal info out there they really put a target on my head," Lake said. 
Soon after the post was made, she said she and two campaign aides received packages containing detailed information they found threatening.
Someone mailed all three of them more than 20 pages related to alleged mistakes with her campaign finance documents, personal documents such as ones related to her pending divorce and notes related to her whereabouts.
Morgan, the campaign manager, and Lake said it looked like someone did a lot of research that couldn't be gathered with simple online searches. 
"We believe that someone had been actually following her," Morgan said. 
One aide quit the campaign over fears for safety.
Lake contacted the Delaware County Sheriff's Office and FBI, which did not immediately return messages Wednesday from IndyStar.
She also contacted the Ball State University Police because one package was delivered Aug. 28 using university mail. A campus spokeswoman told IndyStar that BSU police could not find a culprit. 
Delaware County Prosecutor Hoffman told IndyStar a sheriff's deputy examined the paperwork sent to Lake but could not determine who sent it. Hoffman said it didn't appear a crime was committed regardless. 
In September, Lake said, someone vandalized property at her home, which she more recently reported to the Sheriff's Office. 
The back window of an RV parked at her home was broken. A family car parked at her home had its license plate removed. Someone stole magnets from her door. A campaign cellphone was stolen. 
Democrats condemn the behavior
Lake said she began receiving the racist phone messages late this summer. She and Morgan think they are from seven or eight different people. Many call her a racial slur. Some use that and derogatory words for women, Lake and Morgan said. 
"They feel emboldened to call her up and call her the N-word and feel she has no right to run for office because she is African American," Morgan said. "I don't think it's 100% on Donald Trump, but I think a lot of it is. And then you look at the fact that Jeannine's opponent, Greg Pence, has indicated several times there is no daylight between his beliefs and Donald Trump's beliefs."
