Last updated on Feb 9, 2020
Returns & exchanges
Contact me within: 3 days of delivery
Ship items back within: 7 days of delivery
I don't accept exchanges or cancellations
But please contact me if you have any problems with your order.
The following items can't be returned or exchanged
Because of the nature of these items, unless they arrive damaged or defective, I can't accept returns for:
Custom or personalized orders
Perishable products (like food or flowers)
Digital downloads
Intimate items (for health/hygiene reasons)
Items on sale
Returns and exchange details
All sales are Final * See Below*
I will accept returns for a few reasons if I am contacted within 3 days of receipt and you return your item within 7 days after Return Authorization is giving.  If I have made a blaring mistake on the listing and if the item is damaged in anyway that is not listed in the listing details are the ONLY circumstances that I will accept returns. ALL RETURNS have to have Authorization before being returned. In such cases in which the return is to no fault of my own, the costs of shipping will be deducted from the purchase price prior to refund given. Otherwise ALL SALES ARE FINAL.
If there is a problem with Shipping or your item has been damaged by the shipping process-please notify me asap!! Also, Keep the box and Packing materials because USPS will require pics of that in addition to the broken item. All items that ship priority are insured automatically through USPS up to $50. If you want additional insurance or need insurance because your item is shipping parcel post-you MUST ask in advance of your order. Vintage Items are all USED and PRE-LOVED Items. This is part of what makes Vintage and Antique pieces so special. If there are noticeable chips, cracks, scratches I will state that in the individual listing. But know I am human so please refer to the pictures carefully. **All SALES ARE FINAL**THANK you !!!
More
Shipping policies
SHIPPING AND SUPPLIES: I always ship within 3 business days! Shipping prices listed for the continental United States, if you are located in Hawaii or Alaska please convo for shipping rate before you order. Shipping supplies are clean used supplies including packing material and boxes. Excess shipping over $2.00 will be refunded. I also combine shipping, Combined Shipping should be set, However if the cost looks out of line, feel free to message me before hand for an adjusted shipping rate.
I ship the least expensive way possible in order to save on your shipping costs. If you need expedited or need your item by a certain date please convo before hand and I will quote for upgraded shipping.
FREE Local PICK UP for JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA* Please CONVO me prior to ordering. Thanks!
International Shipping: I Do ship International Convo me and let me give you a quote on the shipping before you place your order. Thanks!
Less
