The United States General Election will be held in 16 days, 7 hours, 12 minutes, 35 seconds on Nov 3, 2020 at 12:00 AM. Make sure you're registered to vote and know all your options to vote safely! Don't wait!
Xbox Brasil dismisses new host after she was the victim of death and rape threats.
#1
Translation of her message:
At the beginning of September, when I announced my new job at Xbox Brasil, I suffered harassment of all kinds, from people saying that I didn't play x or y and that I wasn't "worthy" of my job, to rape/death threats and aggression for exposing tense situations.
Thanks to the help of my family, boyfriend and friends, I learned well on how to deal with this, but it didn't meant that it was not happening anymore.
And thanks to all these harassments, Microsoft decided that it was for the best sever ties with me as a host so I wouldn't be more exposed to situations like these that happened.
I respect the decision made by Microsoft,
my love for them will be the same as always,
Thank you.
Click to shrink...
Basically appeal to the gamergate crowd.
Fuck this, I'm fuming, first the "Mil Grau" situation and now this shit. Xbox Brasil are shit. If there was someone that didn't deserve this, it was her.
Update: https://www.theenemy.com.br/xbox/vi...ora-do-xbox-brasil-e-demitida-pela-microsoft/
Interview made by The Enemy
"Yes, they (Xbox Brasil) always talked with me to help with the situation and remain calm. I toughened up from reading some stuff, especially on Twitter, but when I always saw something heavy, I sent it to them (Xbox Brasil)"
However, according to Isadora, the firing occurred thanks to "guidance from the global Xbox team", that there shouldn't be anyone that susceptible to attacks or harassments as the face of the brand.
"It's a feeling of impotency, right? I opened to the brand with my heart, did more than necessary and I loved my job. I lost my job because people don't know how to respect each other."
Click to shrink...
UPDATE 2: Xbox BR gave a (non)answer:
We did some changes in our strategy regarding content that came originally from Brazil, resulting in less channels (of communication). We thank Isadora Baile and the talented agency crew for their creativity and contribuition to Xbox News. Xbox Wire Portal will be our only news channel from now on. Xbox BR channel will continue to experiment new ways to entertain brazilian gamers.

