3
✖
Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness has added Xochitl Gomez to its cast. The actress is best known for her work in The Baby-Sitters Club. The role which Gomez is playing in the Strange sequel is currently unknown and plot details for her role and the film as a whole are largely being kept under wraps. Benedict Cumberbatch is returning to play the titular role in the direction of Spider-Man trilogy director Sam Raimi. Elizabeth Olsen will also be in the film as her Scarlet Witch character, carrying out a story which will be laid out in WandaVision.
The news of Gomez's casting comes from Deadline.
Speculation would consider that Gomez could be playing Marvel Comics character America Chavez, also known as Miss America. Whispers among fans online in the Marvel rumor corners of social media have long suspected the character would be making an appearance in Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness , though Marvel does not and has not commented on any of these rumors. Chavez is a character from the Utopian Parallel, a separate timeline and universe from the main Marvel Comics continuity, and Cumberbatch's Strange is going to be partaking in to interuniversal travel for this film.
Earlier this year, Ejoiofor shared his excitement to reprise his Baron Mordo role for Strange 2 under the direction of Sam Raimi. "[Raimi is] coming on," Ejiofor said in an interview with ComicBook.com. "I'm very, very excited about that. Obviously, we've been sort of interrupted as the whole world has been in the pandemic but hopefully we are back on track with that and continuing quite soon, so I'm very excited about it."
Raimi previously opened up about the project at a press conference, earlier this year. “I loved Doctor Strange as a kid, but he was always after Spider-Man and Batman for me, he was probably at number five for me of great comic book characters,” Raimi said. “He was so original, but when we had that moment in Spider-Man 2 I had no idea that we would ever be making a Doctor Strange movie, so it was really funny to me that coincidentally that line was in the movie. I gotta say I wish we had the foresight to know that I was going to be involved in the project.”
Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness is scheduled to hit theaters on March 25, 2022.
(Photo by Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images)
