Liverpool Fans Claim Roberto Firmino Fooled Kepa For Sadio Mane Goal
Ryan Sidle in
Published 
1:57 PM, Tuesday September 22 2020 GMT+1
Kepa Arrizabalaga was a fault for Liverpool's second goal on Sunday, as the Premier League champions beat Chelsea, but Roberto Firmino deserves some credit according to fans.
The Chelsea keeper was once again in the spotlight as he kicked his attempted clearance straight at Sadio Mane early in the second half.
Mane was praised for his decision to keep going after losing the ball and he harried the world's most expensive goalkeeper into his latest mistake.
Advert
However now some fans are claiming that Firmino had just as much to do with the goal as his strike partner, saying that the Brazilian told Kepa to pass where he did and in a panic the keeper followed instruction.
Bobby telling Kepa to pass it!! He actually listened :see_no_evil::joy: cheers pal! #YNWA #LFC pic.twitter.com/Y1IQHR0Yxc
- Jack Callaghan (@JackCal3) September 20, 2020
Firmino asking Kepa to pass the ball to Jorginho so Mane can intercept. Class https://t.co/1GtXePRdH6
- thiago jota (@bksarpong) September 21, 2020
Advert
- CHAMPIONS LFC+JFT96+YNWA (@MUFFDUFF69) September 21, 2020
More Like This
- KoloKK ' Champion of the World (@KoloKennethK) September 21, 2020
In slight defence of Kepa there is a good chance he wasn't listening to Firmino but there's a good chance his fellow forward was.
Mane is initially running straight at the goalie to close his down but the Brazilian's call of where the ball is going sees the former Southampton striker drop off and change direction slightly.
Advert
That change means that the pass goes straight to his outstretched foot and he's able to score his second, just minutes after opening the scoring.
Mane adds his second. Image: PA Images
Kepa was under pressure at Stamford Bridge last season after a slew of mistakes , he was replaced by Willy Caballero at the end of the season but regained his place for this campaign.
He made an error in the opening game against Brighton, as a long range shot from Leandro Trossard beat him and the mistake against Liverpool might be his last for the Blues.
Advert
Caballero will play the Carabao Cup game this week and Edouard Mendy is finalising his deal to west London from Rennes.
Featured Image Credit: Sky Sports
