Enter the characters you see below
Sorry, we just need to make sure you're not a robot. For best results, please make sure your browser is accepting cookies.
Type the characters you see in this image:
Would you like to tell us about a lower price?
Product description
Following the record-breaking launch of NBA 2K16, the NBA 2K franchise continues to stake its claim as the most authentic sports video game with NBA 2K17. As the franchise that “all sports video games should aspire to be” (GamesRadar), NBA 2K17 will take the game to new heights and continue to blur the lines between video game and reality.
System Requirements:
Supported Platforms: One - Microsoft Xbox         
Xbox account required for game activation and installation
From the manufacturer
NBA 2K17
Following the record-breaking launch of NBA 2K16, the NBA 2K franchise continues to stake its claim as the most authentic sports video game with NBA 2K17. As the franchise that 'all sports video games should aspire to be' (GamesRadar), NBA 2K17 will take the game to new heights and continue to blur the lines between video game and reality.
Read more
Best In Class Gameplay
2K puts shot making in your hands like never before. Advanced Skill Shooting gives you complete control over the power and aim of your perimeter shots as well as your ability to finish inside the paint.
My Career
It’s all-new and all about basketball in 2K17 – and you’re in control. Your on-court performance and career decisions lead to different outcomes as you determine your path through an immersive new narrative, featuring Michael B. Jordan. Additionally, new player controls give you unparalleled supremacy on the court.
USA Basketball
Take the court as Team USA with Coach K on the sidelines, or relive the glory of the ’92 Dream Team. Earn USAB MyTEAM cards and gear up your MyPLAYER with official USAB wearables.
Read more
College Integration
For the first time, play as college basketball legends with each school’s all-time greats team and MyTEAM cards.
League Expansion
For the first time, customize your MyLEAGUE and MyGM experience with league expansion. Choose your expansion team names, logos and uniforms, and share them with the rest of the NBA 2K community. Your customized league comes complete with everything from Expansion Drafts to modified schedules and more to ensure an authentic NBA experience.
2K Beats
Imagine Dragons, Grimes, Noah '40' Shabib of OVO Sound and Michael B. Jordan curate another electric 2K soundtrack, featuring 50 songs.
