More
4K Shares
Did you know that water-powered cars have existed for years? If you didn’t, it’s probably because they haven’t been given proper media coverage.
What’s even odder, their inventors were either intimidated into ceasing their work, or died under mysterious circumstances.
Among the latter was Stanley Meyer, a US inventor who designed a water fuel device, claiming that any car fitted with it could run purely on water.
It was believed that this vehicle could run across the USA on 22 gallons of water. Meyer specifically emphasized that tap water, purified or salt water could be used as fuel for the engine.
Meyer was convinced that his work had been accepted since the Pentagon expressed interested in it and plans were being made to honour him for it.
In addition, The British Advanced Energy Institute sent a delegation to study his work. They confirmed this:
“We recently sent a delegation to witness Stan’s work, to really evaluate it. This is one of the most important inventions of the century.”
However, unbeknownst to him, these same people might have been responsible for his downfall. Meyer’s story took a turn for the worse while he was out at dinner with his twin brother and two Belgian investors. They were celebrating his recently patented creation of the car run only by water.
Everything was going smoothly, until Meyer took a sip from his cranberry juice. He immediately started grabbing his neck and ran outside while vomiting profusely. The last words he said to his brother before dying were: “They poisoned me”.
Even though the final cause of death was listed as a brain aneurysm, his final words are enough to make you wonder whether he was truly poisoned.
If you come to think about it, Meyer’s water car would have been a great obstacle to the oil industry’s profit margin. But, could big oil corporations have done whatever it takes to stop his invention from getting widespread recognition in order to protect their bottom line? Were they trying to censor his invention?
There’s no doubt that they were interested in his project. In fact, there had been a lot of interest from large oil companies, big investment companies and even the government.
Stanley ended up getting billion dollar offers for his patents from large groups who wouldn’t want us to have free energy. He turned them all down, since the main reason he designed the water car was to prevent oil-rich nations from taking advantage of the people.
Nevertheless, that never happened and gas prices eventually skyrocketed, since his death put a stop to his creation and was barely covered by the media. He was one of the few individuals who wanted to make the world a better place with his inventions.
It’s seriously a shame that there has been no serious coverage of this story!
Therefore, one way to stop this corrupt system is to get actual media coverage of the buried stories. Also, if we want free energy, we need to give our support to the inventors. As Stanley Meyer once said:
“If me and you could come together in accord, no political institution in the word, no multinationalist groups could defeat us.”
From Around the Web
