Lubbock Avalanche-Journal
DENVER CITY — A year’s worth of varsity experience has done Bax Townsend some good.
After a freshman year in what could be considered trial by fire, Class 3A, Division I, No. 5-ranked Shallowater’s sophomore quarterback lit up the scoreboard Friday night against Denver City.
Townsend accounted for all four of Shallowater’s first-half touchdowns en route to a 44-41 win over Denver City at Mustangs Stadium.
With the win, Shallowater moves to 6-0 on the year and sits atop the District 1-3A, Division I standings after three league games by downing Denver City (4-4, 2-1).
The meeting was the first for the two teams since 2015. Shallowater won that contest as well, 45-20.
Even when Mario Sanchez, who finished with 193 rushing yards, 145 passing yards, fueled Denver City to a potential comeback bid in the fourth quarter, narrowing the score to 36-34 and then, 44-41, Townsend and Shallowater remained calm. The team’s defense got a fourth-down stop with 1:43 left and to get the offense back on the field.
"We've kind of been a fast start team, which is good, but we haven't been a fast finish team," Shallowater coach Bryan Wood said. "That's going to have to change if they want to be a great football club and we've talked about that a little bit. ... We're going to have to play more consistent in the second half for sure."
Despite a few hiccups, Townsend iced the game with a 22-yard run.
More: Texas High School Football: Week 8 Statewide Scores
“In that situation right there, there’s one guy that I want his hands on the ball,” Wood said. “I want Bax to take it. He’ll find a crease and find some way to get in it. I knew he was going to be smart with the football, so there’s a lot of confidence, and when your coach has confidence in you, you play better.”
Townsend finished with five total touchdowns, 253 yards on 20 totes and 73 yards on 3-for-7 throwing.
Denver City won the toss to start the game and deferred to the second half, and Townsend ran with the opportunity. 
Literally.
Townsend had runs of 8 and 10 yards and then capped off Shallowater’s five-play, 55-yard drive by rushing for a 26-yard touchdown. After taking two minutes off the clock on the drive, Townsend ran in the 2-point conversion for Shallowater’s early 8-0 lead.
Caleb Batson helped get Shallowater’s offense back on the field by recovering a fumble with 2:35 left in the first quarter. Keegan Campbell had a short 2-yard run before Townsend scooted up the sideline for a 76-yard score to put Shallowater up 16-0 at the 1:35 mark before the first stanza ended.
Five minutes into the second quarter, Townsend tallied his third touchdown on a 4-yard run for the visiting Mustangs toward a 22-0 advantage.
Following the scoring frenzy, Trevor Winn gave Denver City a bit of momentum with a fumble recovery.
Quarterback Mario Sanchez made the most of it by scoring on an 8-yard run at the 2:05 mark of the second quarter, denying Shallowater of a first-half shutout.
Shallowater responded by opting to go to the air on the next series, looking to score before the midway point.
The offense marched the ball down to the Denver City 38 before Wood called a timeout with 1:04 to go before halftime. Townsend executed the game plan to a T, throwing a 38-yard touchdown pass to Batson.
Townsend, who finished the first half with 196 yards, ran in a third two-point conversion for the 30-7 lead.
The score remained the same as Shallowater’s defense prevented Denver City from putting together a scoring drive in the final 55 seconds.
“How do you come in and say, ‘Great job’ when you lose? You have to,” Denver City coach Daniel Fontenot said. “We were down 22-0 at one time and had a chance to win it there with three minutes left. The kids played well, fought hard. We told them at halftime we had a couple of mistakes in the first half and we thought we had a chance to be right in the game, so we came out, had a couple of takeaways, stepped up like we thought we could, and played well.”
Up next
Shallowater is scheduled to stay on the road to play at Kermit at 7 p.m. Oct. 22, while Denver City looks to rebound at Brownfield with a 7 p.m. kickoff.
SHALLOWATER 44, DENVER CITY 41
Shallowater;16;14;6;8;-;44
