Share on Facebook Share on Twitter
Welcome to MyTEAM Season 2: Subsequent is Now! I hope you’re prepared, as a result of the upcoming six weeks will add a brand new approach to play, extra rewards, a few of the most unusual promos ever launched, and, in fact, the launch of NBA 2K21 on subsequent gen consoles.
So why Subsequent is Now? With the ’19-’20 NBA season coming to an in depth final weekend with the Lakers’ 17th Championship, all 30 groups and their followers are looking forward to the subsequent on this unprecedented offseason. The league’s younger gamers are poised to take management and free brokers are able to signal. So we’re utilizing MyTEAM’s second-ever Season to shine a highlight on the NBA offseason and the younger expertise rising within the NBA.
To cleared the path as our Stage 40 Grand Prize, is former #1 total choose, Pink Diamond Blake Griffin! Anybody who has seen what the Season 1 Stephen Curry is able to on the MyTEAM court docket will not need to second-guess pursuing Griffin, and belief me, each of those playing cards keep a degree above the remainder on subsequent gen as nicely!
So what can YOU count on in MyTEAM Season 2: Subsequent is Now?
MyTEAM: Season 2 has arrived, bringing new challenges, extra rewards, and an all-NEW approach to play 3v3. NEXT IS NOW.
TRIPLE THREAT CHALLENGES
A brand new approach to play 3v3 in MyTEAM has arrived, with Triple Risk Challenges! This new single participant mode will add Triple Risk to the ever-evolving world of MyTEAM Challenges. Tackle a few of the finest trios of all-time with gamers in your assortment, meet new & a number of Win Circumstances, adapt your trio to suit the Problem Guidelines, and earn rewards to enhance your lineup for each mode in MyTEAM!
To tip-off Season 2, you will discover a Highlight set of 10 Triple Risk Problem video games in opposition to virtually all the rewards for this Season. Extra on these gamers later!
You may count on Triple Risk Challenges to be the staple of our Highlight Problem releases, which can roll out on completely different days of the week in Season 2. Should you full all of those Challenges, you’ll earn a participant making his MyTEAM debut, Diamond Rafer Alston! Who higher than “Skip to My Lou” himself?
WIN THE WEEKEND
Season 1 allow us to all expertise MyTEAM Restricted for the primary time. The lineups we encountered each weekend had been inventive to adapt to every new restriction and we can not wait to see what you provide you with as everybody’s MyTEAM collections get deeper. With the grand seasonal prize of Restricted requiring 6 Championship Rings, lacking one is the definition of HOF Coronary heart Crusher.
We have now heard your suggestions and in Season 2, the Lakers-inspired rings will likely be simpler to get, displaying up after just some wins in Restricted. You’ll not need to cease enjoying after getting your ring although, as we’re including extra distinctive and nice rewards to enhance your lineup every weekend.
Accompanying Restricted every weekend will likely be new “Win the Weekend” Agenda teams. This will likely be your probability to earn extra XP each weekend in MyTEAM, in all modes. Anticipate to get your reps in every weekend, and doing so will earn you a free award pack from the most recent launch!
MORE AGENDAS, MORE REWARDS
In Season 1, we had the NBA postseason to encourage Second Agendas, but it surely seems to be like now we have a minimum of just a few months till they’ll make a return. Fortunately, the younger gamers of the league made some spectacular early-season stat strains you could recreate in MyTEAM for that all-important XP!
You might have encountered a handful of Authentic Proprietor Agendas in Season 1, and they are going to be returning as bonus XP Agendas in Season 2’s Agenda teams. That means in the event you aren’t the Authentic Proprietor of a selected card, you might be nonetheless very a lot within the operating for that Stage 40 Blake Griffin.
As talked about within the MyTEAM unveiling weblog, a brand new Season brings new rewards. Over 40 new reward playing cards will likely be added by the top of the Season, sufficient to run three full lineups! 12 new gamers for the Reward Market, three new Exchanges, and for the newly expanded Triple Risk Offline, 450 wins will see your assortment choose up a Diamond Victor Oladipo. A brand new Pink Diamond reward can even be accessible for finishing all the Subsequent is Now collections this Season, the now two-time champ, J.R. Smith!
Begin your Subsequent is Now journey with NBA 2K21 Subsequent Gen cowl athlete Zion Williamson as this Season’s Stage 1 Free Agent card. Luka Doncic, Rui Hachimura, Trae Younger, Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, and extra will unlock as you degree up. Like Season 1, every season degree reward participant is ready to earn you much more XP.
It doesn’t matter what mode you play in MyTEAM, there are rewards and XP ready to be earned by you!
NEW SIGNATURE CHALLENGE
I sincerely hope you all loved cowl athlete Damian Lillard’s Signature Problem to launch NBA 2K21’s MyTEAM. His epic recreation in opposition to the Thunder within the 2019 Playoffs was a second to behold, and an unbelievable problem to undertake in MyTEAM. Thanks Dame!
Up subsequent is a participant who I’ve been ready to play with, making his NBA 2K21 MyTEAM debut along with his personal Signature Problem, Vince Carter! After a profession that performed video games in FOUR completely different a long time, he was in a position to choose one recreation for MyTEAM followers to recreate.
On January 8th, 2006, Vince Carter hit a clutch recreation successful three over the Raptors, from a hand-off help from Nets teammate Jason Kidd. It was his second recreation within the away locker room in Toronto, and evidently, an important second in his profession.
Should you can full Vince Carter’s Signature Problem by matching his 42 factors and dropping just a few threes on the Raptors, then you’ll earn 15 Tokens and a Corridor of Fame slashing badge. Not unhealthy for a single recreation! Right here is the problem although, if Vince Carter is making his debut in NBA 2K21’s MyTEAM, you’ll have to get him someway to play in his Signature Problem…. Enter the locker code VINCE-CARTER-GAME-WINNER to choose up the cardboard you will want to finish this problem. Locker code expires Friday November 27, 07:59:59 AM PT.
NEXT IS NOW
Sure, the Subsequent is Now in MyTEAM! Keep in mind, if you’re enjoying on PlayStation 4 or Xbox One, ALL of your MyTEAM progress, lineups, and assortment will carry over to the subsequent era of consoles. So, in the event you had been one of many gamers who earned Season 1’s Stage 40 Grand Prize of Stephen Curry, you already know what he’ll appear like in your lineup in lower than a month!
We can not wait so that you can expertise MyTEAM on the subsequent era of consoles and having the ability to carry over ALL of your progress is an absolute recreation changer. The Subsequent is actually NOW in MyTEAM. Earn these lineup-changing rewards and prepare for the subsequent gen launch of NBA 2K21 in November!
Should you take pleasure in video games and gaming and need extra NEWS from the Gaming World Click on Right here
