Last updated on Aug 17, 2020
Returns & exchanges
I gladly accept returns and exchanges
Contact me within: 14 days of delivery
Ship items back within: 21 days of delivery
I don't accept cancellations
But please contact me if you have any problems with your order.
The following items can't be returned or exchanged
Because of the nature of these items, unless they arrive damaged or defective, I can't accept returns for:
Custom or personalized orders
Perishable products (like food or flowers)
Digital downloads
Intimate items (for health/hygiene reasons)
Returns and exchange details
Returns are accepted, with the exception of custom made items. Custom made items are not returnable.If you are unsatisfied with your item, please contact me within 7 days of receiving the item I will refund your original purchase price upon my receipt of the returned item, in the condition it was originally shipped to you. Buyer pays return shipping. ***Custom made items cannot be returned.***
More
Shipping policies
Please understand that due to recent world events many shipping companies are experiencing delays. We will ship your items out within one business day, but sellers have no control over delays once the shipping company has your item in their possession.All orders received with cleared payment, will be shipped within 24 hours if on a business day. Orders placed over the weekend or on a holiday with be shipped the following business day. This is processing time and does not include actual transport time to your address. Arrival to your address make take and additional 3-14 days from date item was processed and shipped. International orders may take longer. Please be sure ALL information you provide during checkout is correct. Please make sure you provide the correct name and shipping address as this is the address your order will be shipped to. Please be sure to purchase shipping insurance for your items. Items may be shipped in recycled , re-used, or re-purposed boxes.
Less
