Oct. 15, 2020 / 3:00 AM
NASA funds Nokia plan to provide cellular service on moon
By
Paul Brinkmann
(0)
This is an artist's conception of a lunar lander operated by Vodafone and Nokia that would bring 4G cellular communications and robotic rovers to the moon. Image courtesy of Vodafone
The Apollo 17 Lunar Roving Vehicle remained on the moon's surface and could be checked by robotic rovers proposed by Vodafone and Nokia. Photo courtesy of NASA
NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine, shown as he testified before a Senate committee hearing in September, announced $370 million in new contracts Wednesday related to upcoming lunar missions. Pool Photo by Graeme Jennings/UPI | License Photo
ORLANDO, Fla., Oct. 15 (UPI) -- NASA will fund a project by Nokia to build a 4G cellular communication network on the moon with $14.1 million, the space agency announced.
That project was part of $370 million in new contracts for lunar surface research missions NASA announced Wednesday. Most of the money went to large space companies like SpaceX and United Launch Alliance to perfect techniques to make and handle rocket propellant in space.
Advertisement
The space agency must quickly develop new technologies for living and working on the moon if it wants to realize its goal to have astronauts working at a lunar base by 2028, NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine said in a live broadcast.
"We need power systems that can last a long time on the surface of the moon, and we need habitation capability on the surface," Bridenstine said.
RELATED Eight nations, including U.S., sign accords for moon missions
Nokia of North America received the contract for the lunar communication project. Finland-based parent company Nokia owns the U.S. subsidiary.
Nokia and British firm Vodafone had announced their goal for a moon mission in 2018. They had planned to launch a lander and rovers built by Audi, utilizing a SpaceX rocket.
At the time, the companies said they would set down near the Apollo 17 landing site and have rovers examine the Lunar Roving Vehicle, or moon buggy, astronauts left behind in 1972. That launch never happened, but the new contract breathes life into Nokia's plans for moon projects.
RELATED Blue Origin launches, lands NASA moon landing sensor experiment
"The system could support lunar surface communications at greater distances, increased speeds and provide more reliability than current standards," NASA noted in its contract award announcement.
Having cellular service on the moon could support communication between lunar landers, rovers, habitats and astronauts, said Jim Reuter, associate administrator for NASA's Space Technology Mission Directorate.
"The system would also extend to spacecraft," Reuter said. "With NASA funding, Nokia will look at how terrestrial technology could be modified for the lunar environment to support reliable, high-rate communications."
RELATED Space agency leaders call for greater international cooperation
Nokia didn't respond to questions about the intended landing site for the company's first mission. NASA hasn't decided on a landing site for the agency's Artemis missions, but Bridenstine reiterated Wednesday that the target is a site near water-ice deposits on the lunar South Pole.
The contracts are geared toward NASA's Tipping Point program, which funds technologies that, if demonstrated successfully, are likely to be adopted by private industry.
"We want to build the [lunar] infrastructure...that is going to enable an international partnership for the biggest, broadest, most diverse inclusive coalition of researchers and explorers in the history of humankind," Bridenstine said.
Other technologies funded Wednesday include demonstrations of lunar surface power generation and energy storage.
Houston-based Intuitive Machines, for example, will develop a "hopping robot" that could launch and carry small payloads from one lunar site to another.
And Alpha Space, also based in Houston, will create a small laboratory that could land on the moon's surface and allow researchers to study how the extreme temperatures and radiation affect materials and electronics.
NASA's 16 women astronauts -- at least one likely to walk on moon
Tracy Caldwell Dyson pauses for a portrait in her spacesuit before going underwater in the Neutral Buoyancy Lab at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston on July 8, 2019. Photo by Bill Ingalls/UPI
Kayla Barron dons her spacesuit in Houston on July 12, 2019. Photo by Bill Ingalls/UPI
Loral O'Hara stands in front of a T-38 trainer aircraft at Ellington Field near Johnson Space Center on June 6, 2017. Photo by Robert Markowitz/NASA
Nicole Aunapu Mann attends the announcement that she was being assigned to the Boeing CST-100 Starliner Crew test flight to the International Space Station on August 3, 2018. Photo Bill Ingalls/NASA
Jessica Meir sits for her portrait in an Extravehicular Mobility Unit, the suit used for spacewalks, on September 11, 2018. Photo by Josh Valcarcel/NASA
Christina Koch collects and packs Mizuna mustard greens grown and harvested inside the International Space Station's veggie botany facility on November 13, 2019.  Photo courtesy of NASA
Stephanie Wilson poses for a portrait at Johnson Space Center on July 11, 2019. Photo by Bill Ingalls/NASA
Expedition 59 astronaut Anne McClain is helped out of the Soyuz MS-11 spacecraft just minutes after she landed in a remote area near the town of Zhezkazgan, Kazakhstan, on June 25, 2019. Photo by Bill Ingalls/NASA
Zena Cardman awaits the next steps from instructors during water survival training in Houston on August 23, 2017. Photo by David DeHoyos/NASA
Jasmin Moghbeli poses for a portrait in the Systems Engineering Simulator for the International Space Station and advanced spaceflight programs at the Johnson Space Center on July 9, 2019. Photo by Bill Ingalls/NASA
Expedition 32 flight engineer and Expedition 33 commander Sunita Williams participates in spacesuit fit check at the Johnson Space Center on September 8, 2011. Photo courtesy of NASA
Jeanette Epps sits for her portrait on September 30, 2009. Photo by Robert Markowitz/NASA
Megan McArthur poses for a portrait on the Crew Access Arm of the mobile launcher at Kennedy Space Center in Florida on June 25, 2019. Photo by Joel Kowsky/NASA
Jessica Watkins is helped into a spacesuit before  underwater spacewalk training at Johnson Space Center on May 22, 2019. Photo by David DeHoyos/NASA
Kate Rubins prepares for a spacewalk on board the International Space Station on August 10, 2016. Photo courtesy of NASA
Shannon Walker welcomes viewers at the Johnson Space Center to watch the live coverage of Expedition 40/41 launch as it unfolds at Baikonur, Kazakhstan, on May 28, 2014. Members of the crew can be seen on the nearby screen. Photo courtesy of NASA
(0) Leave a comment
