by Tyler Durden
Fri, 10/16/2020 - 22:30
The virus pandemic has resulted in an unprecedented number of Americans voting by mail or using ballet drop boxes this election season. Some of these drop boxes, especially those in Baltimore City, are guarded by a private security force, considering the liberal-run metro area is a violent mess . 
On Thursday, Baltimore City police confirmed a ballot box security guard was shot and wounded in Northeast Baltimore, reported local news  WBAL-TV 11 . 
City police said the incident occurred in the early morning hours on Thursday, outside the Achievement Academy in the 2200 block of Pinewood Ave. Officers found the 24-year-old security guard shot multiple times - was immediately taken to a hospital with non-life-threatening injuries.
#breaking 24 yo man guarding this ballot box overnight was shot in an attempted robbery. He was taken to the hospital with non life threatening injuries #wbal pic.twitter.com/iQhsF1BwI4
— Kim Dacey WBAL (@kimdaceywbal) October 15, 2020
Baltimore City Election Director Armstead Jones told  The Baltimore Sun  that the guard was contracted by a private security company operating on behalf of the Baltimore City Board of Elections to monitor the city's ballot drop boxes.
"After looking at video surveillance footage of the parking lot, detectives learned that armed subjects approached the victim's vehicle and tried to open the car door," police said in a statement.
The statement continued, "the ballot box was not touched and did not appear at any time to be the focus of the gunmen."
Election officials said the guard was in serious but stable condition: 
"Our thoughts are with the victim of this morning's tragic shooting as well as his loved ones. We are actively cooperating with the authorities investigating this matter. Because this is an ongoing investigation...," Maryland Elections tweeted. 
While police do not believe the attempted robbery had anything to do with the ballot box, the incident's timing is suspicious weeks before the presidential election. 
Login
