Kieran Tierney expected to play for Arsenal against Manchester City
The club is understood to have been successful in their attempts to have his self-isolation cut short
16 October 2020 • 6:25pm
Kieran Tierney has been a standout performer for Mikel Arteta Credit: GETTY IMAGES
Kieran Tierney is expected to feature for Arsenal against Manchester City on Saturday, with the club understood to have been successful in their attempts to have his self-isolation cut short.
Arsenal could not confirm on Friday night that Tierney would be available but Telegraph Sport understands the left-back, a key member of Mikel Arteta’s side, will be part of the squad that travels to the Etihad.
Tierney had been told last week that he would need to quarantine for 14 days after his international team-mate Stuart Armstrong tested positive for coronavirus.
The Lothian Health Protection Team in Scotland had identified Tierney as a “close contact” of Armstrong, along with Celtic’s Ryan Christie.
The original decision, which ruled Tierney out of Scotland’s international matches over the past two weeks, was a source of huge frustration for both Arsenal and the player.
Tierney and Arsenal have maintained that he followed all social distancing protocols during his time with Armstrong and did not break any rules in regard to his contact with his team-mate.
Indeed, Telegraph Sport understands that evidence was provided which showed Tierney did not come closer than 2.8 metres to Armstrong.
The pair had been playing video games together but they are understood to have had their own portable consoles, as is the custom for footballers these days, and therefore did not touch any of the same equipment or share the same screen.
Sam Dean's Arsenal briefing
The sense of exasperation was furthered by the fact that Tierney is believed to have antibodies to the virus after testing positive during the summer.
It is understood that, before the start of the new season, Tierney went through a period of self-isolation after returning a positive test. He was asymptomatic and has since tested negative in every round of testing for club and country.
Tierney has missed out on valuable training sessions during his time in isolation. He is a player who is desperate to get into a rhythm under Mikel Arteta, having endured a stop-start first season in English football last year.
On Thursday Arteta said he would have been “extremely disappointed” if Tierney was deemed unavailable for action this weekend.
Tierney played a key role in Arsenal’s FA Cup semi-final victory over City at the end of last season, starring on the left of a back three and creating the second goal scored by Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. Since football’s return following lockdown, Tierney has been one of Arsenal’s most consistent performers.
Related Topics
