Slot to 247Sports Links
Arkansas State head coach Blake Anderson is shaking up his defensive staff just one day after the Red Wolves surrendered 583 total yards in a 59-52 win over Georgia State on Thursday night at Centennial Bank Stadium in Jonesboro.
Defensive coordinator and linebackers coach David Duggan and defensive pass game coordinator Ed Pinkham have been relieved of their coaching duties. Both coaches were in their second season with the Red Wolves after joining the program in 2019.
Anderson issued a statement on Friday announcing the staff changes.
“These kind of decisions are never easy when there are relations, lives and families impacted,” the statement read. “David Duggan is a close friend of mine, and I have a lot of respect for Ed Pinkham – they are both great coaches, and their backgrounds and histories speak to that.
“However, I am responsible for putting a staff together and trying to create the best environment to maximize our players’ abilities. This was my decision, and as I discussed with our Vice Chancellor (for Intercollegiate Athletics) Terry Mohajir, I believe a change is necessary for us to move forward, turn a corner defensively and get the results we want.
”I also want to add that I would not have made it through last year – the toughest personal time in my life without David Duggan. I would not be where I am now without him. This is the hardest part of our profession, but this is a time when I have to put personal feelings aside and do what is best for our program. I wish Dave and Ed both the best as they move forward as well.”
Anderson also announced that co-special teams coordinator and safeties coach Nick Paremski has been promoted to interim defensive coordinator for the remainder of the season.
This comes after the Arkansas State defense allowed a season-high 7.7 yards per play against Georgia State, surrendering 314 yards through the air and 269 yards on the ground. It was the third time this season that the Red Wolves have given up at least 500 yards.
Arkansas State is off to a 3-2 start to the season, a record that is highlighted by a 35-31 upset win on the road against Kansas State on Sept. 12.
Next up for the Red Wolves (3-2, 1-1 Sun Belt) is a road trip to face Appalachian State (2-1, 0-0) on Thursday night. Kickoff is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. CT and the game will be televised on ESPN.
