Gap Integrity Football | DraftKings: Week Six GPP Conviction Plays
October 16, 2020
by Steve Seufert
Welcome to the weekly Gap Integrity Football GPP Convictions fantasy football article. I’ll be bringing to you some of the best GPP plays of the week. These plays are designed to win you large field tournaments, otherwise known as guaranteed-prize-pool contests. We’re looking for potential sneaky shootouts, or direct teammate leverages. For example, if  Michael Thomas is projected at 30% ownership,  Alvin Kamara at 18% would be considered a direct teammate leverage play. Enjoy!
Marvin Jones Jr | $5,100 | Projected Ownership 8-12% w
I always tout Jones as one of the most underrated talents in the entire National Football League. He had an opportunity to raise his fantasy stock earlier in the season while Golladay was out with an injury but wasn’t able to capitalize. In week six, he gets a matchup against the Jacksonville Jaguars who rank 32nd in Pass Defense DVOA per, Football Outsiders . Not only is this a plus matchup but we have a total sitting at 54, creating a smash spot for tournaments. It’s also a leverage off Golladay, who figures to be one of the highest owned receivers on the entire slate.
James Conner | $7,100 | Projected Ownership 6-10%
The former 2017 third round pick is averaging 4.9 yards per carry so far this season. After Benny Snell Jr played well in week one, there was some speculation whether or not this would be Conner’s backfield moving forward. I think he’s all but answered that question after posting 23.1, 27.9 and 15.3 ppr points in his last three games. He doesn’t have the best matchup against Cleveland, who rank 11th in Rush Defense DVOA but the Steelers are favored by -3.5 points, giving us the potential for a positive game script. This total sits at 51.5, which is a nice ancillary piece to have.
We are projecting some ownership on Juju Smith-Schuster and Chase Claypool in the passing game but this is more of a pivot play. Both Alexander Mattison and Derrick Henry are in favorable spots but both players have a chance to check in at 25% ownership. You can gain a massive edge if Conner goes for 100 total yards and two touchdowns, and that’s definitely in the realm of possibility.
Aaron Jones | $7,600 | Projected Ownership 5-9%
Most of what I said about Conner can be said about Jones. The only major difference is that Jones has even more talent and a higher probability to go nuclear. He’s facing a very good Tampa Bay Buccaneers run defense but the total is over 55 points. Once we get over the 55 number, we start talking about the potential chance of seeing the highest scoring game of all time. Not only is Jones a pivot off Henry and Mattison, he’s also a direct leverage off his teammate Davante Adams, who is currently projected to be the highest owned receiver on this slate. If Jones were to have one of his upside games, that will only limit Adams, giving you a direct leverage on the GPP field. Haven’t we learned to not leave Jones in the single-digit ownership territory?
Adam Thielen | $7,300 | Projected Ownership 11-15%
If you’ve read these articles word for word, I bet you know where I’m headed with this one. Mattison is a really good backup and I think he’s shown he can start in this league. But should he have the same fantasy price point as someone like Henry, Conner or Jones? He’s only listed as $800 cheaper than Dalvin Cook. Is the talent gap that narrow? I doubt it.
This is all about Thielen after all, so let’s talk about it. Thielen is projected to be the sixth most owned receiver on the week and rightfully so. He’s in a smash spot against a defense that ranks 30th in Pass Defense DVOA. This same Atlanta Falcons team just canned their head coach and general manager. They’re brutalized with injuries in the secondary and Thielen should have plenty of big play opportunities. All that is obvious but like Jones from Green Bay, we are using this as a leverage off of a teammate. If Mattison is going to be close to 30% owned, I’m going to be way underweight and overweight on the Vikings stud receiver.
Tom Brady | $6,500 | Projected Ownership 4-8%
The Green Bay Packers rank 25th in Pass Defense DVOA and Brady is in a fast paced game with a total of 55.5. Brady can’t run, he never could, and it’s hard to stomach rostering that type of quarterback in this day and age. I should also mention that DFS quarterback ownership is often split evenly, so you may not get the biggest twist in leverage. However, if Brady is going to 5% owned and Matt Ryan is going to be 12-15% owned, I’ll just take my chances on Brady. Not to mention, you’re obviously stacking him with two of his own receivers and they’re all expected to be under owned because they’re all injured. You’re getting a different quarterback that’ll not only differentiate your build but you’re also getting two low-owned receivers to pair with him.
Share this:
