Ryle football stuns Dixie Heights on both sides of the ball in 44-14 win
Eli Feazell
View Comments
UNION, Ky. — Regardless of what you expected from Ryle vs. Dixie Heights, you probably didn’t expect a landslide victory.
Based on the two games last season between these two opponents, a close, defensive battle seemed likely. That wasn’t the case.
Throughout almost the entire night, the Raiders looked unstoppable on both sides of the ball. Quarterback Bradyn Lyons had all the time in the world to throw on passing plays, and Ryle’s defense seemed to be getting takeaways every time you blinked. This dominance was seen in all four quarters of the game and is what led Ryle to a 44-14 victory over Dixie Heights Friday night at Larry A. Ryle High School.
The passing game was the main ingredient in Ryle head coach Mike Engler’s offense. Lyons, a senior, was making accurate passes all night, many thanks to the protection from his offensive line.
“Our offensive line protected really well tonight,” Engler said. “All season, they’ve given Bradyn quite a bit of time to throw.”
Lyons, who missed some games with an injury last year, is now a more capable leader.
“(Lyons) is really starting to come into his own,” Engler said. “Being able to throw the football opens things up.”
The running game was also important for the Raiders, particularly in the redzone. Three of Ryle’s six touchdowns Friday were short runs inside the five-yard line. One was a sneak from Lyons in the third, and the other two were from Lukas Colemire on direct snaps.
Two of the other touchdowns from Ryle were redzone passes from Lyons to Conner Peak in the first quarter and Mathias Cusick in the second.
The one touchdown from Ryle that wasn’t in the redzone? A 37-yard hail mary pass to Kaden Gardner as time in the first half expired, putting the Raiders up by three scores.
Things weren’t too much worse on Ryle’s defense, either.
Allowing only 14 points, only seven of which were when Dixie Heights was keeping it close, is impressive against a district rival. The five takeaways along with the pressure and sacks from Ryle’s front seven all game long helped keep the Colonels’ offense from getting passed their own side of the field too often.
Dixie Height’s turnovers, along with other mistakes, caused the game to get into Ryle’s hands very early.
The Colonels turned the ball over three times in the first quarter, and they were fortunate that the Raiders capitalized with only one touchdown that quarter. Dixie Heights also had far too many penalties the entire game, including three offsides on hard counts. There were plenty of holding calls and personal fouls that took the Colonels out of good positions too. They did look better in the second half compared to the first, but it wasn’t nearly enough to counter Ryle’s dominating play.
Compared to Dixie Heights, Ryle had a very clean game in terms of turnovers and penalties. While the offense looked a bit sloppy in the first quarter due to dropped passes and missed targets on throws, the offense got on a roll quickly after its first touchdown and never slowed down afterward.
The only big mistake was when Lyons threw an interception to Kel Hawkins (who caught a touchdown pass immediately after) on a poor decision in the third quarter, which led to the Colonels’ second touchdown of the night. Given the final score, that mistake was minuscule.
Engler was happy with his team’s lack of mistakes. He thinks that if it weren’t for his team shooting themselves in the foot in Ryle’s three losses this year, the Raiders could be undefeated.
“We’re starting to overcome (mistakes) now,” Engler said. “These kids are starting to believe.”
Next up, Dixie Heights will have a chance to come back from this ugly game when they host Campbell County. Meanwhile next week, Ryle will be visiting Simon Kenton.
“It should be a great football game,” Engler said.
Dixie Heights - 0 7 7 0 - 14
Ryle - 7 20 14 3 - 44
R - Conner Peak 8-yard pass from Bradyn Lyons (Rogers kick good)
DH - Logan Landers 1-yard run (Silvers kick good)
R - Lukas Colemire 1-yard run (Rogers kick good)
R - Mathias Cusick 18-yard pass from Bradyn Lyons (Kick blocked)
R - Kaden Gardner 37-yard pass from Bradyn Lyons (Rogers kick good
R - Lukas Colemire 5-yard run (Rogers kick good)
DH - Kel Hawkins 32-yard pass from Logan Landers (Silvers kick good)
R - Bradyn Lyons 1-yard run (Rogers kick good)
R - Franking Rogers 39-yard field goal
Records: Dixie Heights (3-3) Ryle (3-3)
Staff Directory Careers Accessibility Support Site Map Legals Our Ethical Principles Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights / Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Info / Cookie Policy
