Tohopekaliga deals OCP its first loss
By Steve Gorches
Orlando Sentinel |
Oct 16, 2020 at 11:16 PM
In a high school football version of David vs. Goliath, small school Orlando Christian Prep hung with Class 7A Tohopekaliga, which is the largest school the Warriors have faced since launching their program in 2010.
OCP showed its undefeated record coming into the game was no fluke, but the host Tigers were able to distribute the ball on offense and make enough plays on defense for a 32-22 win.
Advertisement
Five different players scored touchdowns for Tohopekaliga (2-2). Quarterback Tyler Wesley ran for a score and passed for another.
“We’re starting to see our identity as an offense by rotating backs and sharing the wealth,” Tigers coach Marc Deas said.
Advertisement
Wesley was the catalyst for the Tigers with a 40-yard TD pass to Anthony Harlow for their second score in the first quarter. He added a 10-yard TD run to open the second half after Tohopekaliga recovered an OCP mistake on the kickoff. He finished with 61 yards rushing.
Running back Carl Lovett opened the scoring for the Tigers with a 10-yard TD run as part of his 50 yards rushing on seven carries. To illustrate Deas' goal of distribution, Stevenson Sinophat had 65 yards rushing on 13 carries and Randy Duval added 21 yards with a TD in the fourth quarter to seal the win.
OCP (5-1) quarterback Vilay Nakkoun kept his team in the game with 130 yards passing with a TD and 53 yards on the ground with another TD. Henry Fields was his favorite target with four catches for 90 yards.
Next up for Tohopekaliga is a county rivalry game at Sentinel No. 6 Osceola. The Tigers' coaches emphasized cutting down on mistakes leading into that contest.
“There’s going to be a lot of emotion next week,” Tohopekaliga linebacker coach Reggie Warren told the team after Friday’s win. “You can’t let that emotion get you. Emotion let [OCP] have two touchdowns tonight.”
Deas added: “We need to play with controlled emotion, make good plays and celebrate with each other off the field.”
Tohopekaliga 32, Orlando Christian Prep 22
SECOND QUARTER
T: Carl Lovett 10-yard run (run failed), 7:37
T: Anthony Harlow 40-yard pass from Tyler Wesley (run failed), 5:57
O: Vilay Nakkoun 1-yard run (Isaac Abalo run), 1:17
T: Sir Giles 35-yard punt return (Randy Duval run), 0.0
Advertisement
T: Wesley 10-yard run (run failed), 10:33
Latest High School Football News
